- [Instructor] So, this is a profile JSP.
Now, on line number 36, the first thing
that we are going to do is, we are going to fetch
that user object that we set in the request code.
So, that is object as available on the JSP
and then, we can start displaying the data out of it.
So, for that, the first standard action
that I'm going to use is JSP colon use bean.
It comes in with an ID attribute
and this ID, I'm going to fill in as user.
Why?
Let's go back to the ViewProfile servlet
and check the key that you have mentioned
for the user object.
That's the one.
So, this key is basically going to sit in the ID attribute.
More over, we also have to specify the scope it came from.
So, I'm going to say scope and it is going to set to request.
Another thing that we also have to mention is the type.
Type is the fully qualified class name of the user bean.
So, this object is of the user type.
So, we just need to go to the user bean,
take that package name, come right here
on line number 36 under the type attribute
along with the package name,
I'll put a dot operator and mention the class name.
So, now this means that we have retrieved the information
of that user from the request scope.
Had you not used JSP standard actions
and had you stuck to expressions and scriptlets
then, you would have to write down the code
of request dot get attribute in a scriptlet
to replace this line.
But, now do you see that we don't have the right code at all
and we can stick to a simple tag
which will do the entire job
same as what was being done by the scriptlet.
So, now that we are ready
with the JSP use bean standard action tag,
let's go ahead and start displaying the data out of this.
So, for that I'm going to come to line number 44.
I want to display the username.
So, the username is a label out here
and on 44, I have to display the value.
How do you get that?
So, you have to use another JSP standard action
called JSP dot get property.
This one.
And, it comes with a couple of attributes.
The first one is the property
and the second one is the name.
So, the name is going to be exactly identical
as the ID here, so that it understands
that it has to pick up a property
from this particular object.
So, I'm going to copy this from line number 36
and paste it to 44 name attribute.
And then, you have to mention the property.
Now, how do you get to the property.
If you look at the user bean,
you have these instance variables declared.
Those are exactly are your properties.
So, this name that you see for username
is the one that you need to copy from line number six.
Go to profile dot JSP and copy it
under the property attribute.
So, this means that it is going to get the property
of the username from the user object.
Right.
Let's also do the remaining property displays.
So, let's go to number 48.
I'm just going to take this tag
which is going to remain the same.
Line number 44.
Just copy this and paste it on line number 48.
Now, what we have to only do is change this property name.
So, the property name for first name.
Let's go to user,
copy this from line number seven
and come back to profile JSP and paste it out here.
Now, this tag I will have to repeat
because I need to display the last name as well.
So, let me copy it on line number 52
and let me copy it on line number 56 as well.
And then again on line number 60.
So now, in all the three pasted lines,
we're just going to change this property name.
So, this is going to be last name
which is the instance variable from the user bean.
This is going to be age
and that's going to be activity.
Right, so this is how you use JSP standard actions.
You've used JSP use bean
and then you've used JSP get property.
We can also now do one thing.
Let's run this project first and check out the changes
and see whether everything works.
So, I'm going to login first in the application
and we're going to call the user information for admins.
I'm going to click on view my profile
and you see that now it displays all the profile information
for us on that view profile page.
Right, so those are the couple of JSP standard actions
that we are looking at.
Let's look at a couple of other, too.
Let's go to search results dot JSP.
So, this is our page that displays the search results
and if you remember on line number 16,
we had implemented the include directive
to include the header dot JSP file.
An alternative to this is the JSP include standard action.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to just come into this.
We don't need this as of now.
And, I'm going to say JSP include.
So, instead of the include directive,
I'm trying to use JSP include standard action
on line number 17.
This will demand me the path of the file
that I want to include as a resource
on line number 17.
So, I'm going to just say header dot JSP.
So, that's how JSP includes standard action
and will allow you to include another resource
at exactly the point where you write that tag.
Now, this is an interesting thing to know.
A question may come to the mind.
What's the difference between the include directive
and the JSP include standard action.
So, the difference essentially is
that when you use the include directive
then the included resource and the current resource,
they're both going to be combined
and then, it is going to be translated into a servlet file.
However, when you use a JSP include standard action
then, the current JSP, which is search results JSP,
that will be translated separately
and this one, header JSP will
be translated again separately.
And then, at run time, those responses will be combined
and they'll be rendered to the user.
But, for the include directive,
the translation itself involves the combination
and then entirely that thing is going to be translated
to the servlet file.
So, you are going to use JSP include in your projects.
If you think that you want to execute some code
in the included resource.
Dynamic execution if it's required
in your included resource.
Stick to JSP include standard action.
However, if you're just trying to include static resources,
like for example header dot JSP in this case is static.
It doesn't change much.
In that case, you can stick to the include directive.
Another thing is on this JSP, let's say
if you want to include this resource,
under that you can also set parameters
to the header dot JSP by using
this JSP standard action of param.
So, every parameter, of course, comes
with a key and a value pair.
So, now when you go to header dot JSP
this parameter could be accessed on that resource.
So, that's another standard action
that you have at your disposal.
Yes, so those are the few of standard actions
that we had to see and the other ones are not so important
because we are going to go towards expression language
and Java, so it will be a stack library,
in our subsequent videos.